So in the last lecture we added the HTML for our fields here. Let's now sanitize them and save them before displaying
the frontend for our widget.
So let's go in the update() function. And we already did the "title".
Let's do the rest of the fields. So we have the "post_count".
So what we should do in order to sanitize the "post_count". Let's set "$instance['post_count']= $new_instance['post_count']".
And what we can do is we can just make sure it's an integer, right?
So using the intval() function we will make sure it's a number. Next we have the "include_date" which is
a boolean. So we can do something similar.
Let's copy this and "include_date". Instead of intval() we can use boolval().
And this will also make sure that whatever the user sent in this variable, it will always be converted
to a boolean. And saved in the database as a boolean, right?
We finally have the "sort_by".
And let's edit, let's remove the boolval().
So what can we do here?
Remember in the Customizer, let's go to the Customizer. Remember when we wanted to sanitize the
dropdown menu we created a custom function called sanitize something and then we defined an array with
all the possible values.
And then we checked if the input is inside of this array.
Then we return it otherwise we return a default value.
So why don't we do something similar.
Let's copy this function, let's maybe add it here. And let's say "sanitize_sort_by".
So our possible values are "date" and "rand" and "comment_count".
So
"date" and "rand"
and "comment_count". And let's default to date
if the input is not one of these valid values, right? And then we can use this function to sanitize. So
let's save now and
let's type here maybe 3, and set this to "true" and random or Number Of Comments and save.
So now they are not displayed here.
We will do this now, but in the instance that we are var_dumping in the form() here we now have our
values.
We have "post_count" 3, "include_date" true and "sort_by" comment_count.
So let's do this now.
Remember we have to check if the value is set and set the default value.
So let's duplicate this and do it for the "post_count".
Make sure if you copy and paste like me, make sure not to make any silly mistakes.
So let's default it to 3 maybe. And let's do a couple of more for the other fields.
So this one will be the "include_date"
defaulted to "false". And finally "sort_by". Let's default it to "date".
And now we have to use these values $post_count, $include_date
and $sort_by for the inputs.
So here in the post_count we just have to add an input.
Sorry
and then "echo " and then "post_count". And here we can use the esc_attr
or we can also use intval() to escape any HTML or any invalid HTML attributes. For the checkbox
we need to add the attributes checked if $include_date is "true".
Right?
So you can do an if condition here and stuff like that but actually WordPress provide a function.
So let's open PHP in the "input" attribute and let's call a function called checked(). And then it takes the
value, boolean value.
So in our case $include_date. And this function will output the checked attribute
if this is "true" and that will not output it otherwise.
And similarly we have a function called selected() for the options. So for the select options
we need to output the "selected" attribute, right?
So we have function called selected() and it takes, in our case two arguments: "selected" and "current". So "current" is the current
value which here is "date" and selected is the selected value which is this
$sort_by.
So let's copy this
and paste it for the other options.
And then we just have to change the second argument to the value.
I think that will be it.
Let's take a look.
And now we have 3, let's make it 8. Let's set this back to "false". Let's change this to "Random". Let's also change
the Title to make sure everything is working. And let's refresh.
And everything is looking fine. So let's also try to drag a new one to make sure the defaults are
saved.
So
default 3 and "Most Recent" and "false". Let's refresh.
And we have our values.
So I think it's now time to remove this var_dump().
And now we have our widget in the backend side completed. Let's
now move to the frontend and display the posts instead of this.
So see you in the next lecture.